---
title: "Learning to Manipulate Deformable Objects without Demonstrations"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2019-10-29-icra2020
excerpt: 'This paper is about the number 1. The number 2 is left for future work.'
date: 2009-10-01
venue: 'under review for ICRA(IEEE Conference on Robotics and Automation) 2020'
paperurl: 'https://arxiv.org/pdf/1910.13439.pdf'
citation: 'Yilin Wu, Wilson Yan, Thanard Kurutach, Lerrel Pinto, Pieter Abbeel, (2019). "Learning to Manipulate Deformable Objects without Demonstrations" <i>under review ofr ICRA 2020</i>. 1(1).'

---
# Abstract

In this paper we tackle the problem of deformable
object manipulation through model-free visual reinforcement
learning (RL). In order to circumvent the sample inefficiency
of RL, we propose two key ideas that accelerate learning. First,
we propose an iterative pick-place action space that encodes
the conditional relationship between picking and placing on
deformable objects. The explicit structural encoding enables
faster learning under complex object dynamics. Second, instead
of jointly learning both the pick and the place locations, we only
explicitly learn the placing policy conditioned on random pick
points. Then, by selecting the pick point that has Maximal Value
under Placing (MVP), we obtain our picking policy. Using this
learning framework, we obtain an order of magnitude faster
learning compared to independent action-spaces on our suite
of deformable object manipulation tasks. Finally, using domain
randomization, we transfer our policies to a real PR2 robot for
challenging cloth and rope manipulation.

[Download paper here](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1910.13439.pdf)

Recommended citation: Yilin Wu, Wilson Yan, Thanard Kurutach, Lerrel Pinto, Pieter Abbeel, (2019). "Learning to Manipulate Deformable Objects without Demonstrations" <i>under review ofr ICRA 2020</i>. 1(1).
